Of course in this lecture we're going to do something nice and to show you how you can make something
a lot of ways you can do it.
I'm going to show you all the different ways that you kind of choose which one you want to do.
You can do your second half of the beginning and end up with a tool called free floating objects.
We may actually just do it your own little wireframe can this incredibly useful help you understand
is there isn't you know other people want to see your application and not accidentally get something
later down the road and then they surprise.
Well guess what.
You totally forgot to make a page for users with their permission or blogging site.
It's a really helpful tool.
Most of the authors are going to want to look for a site if you're doing something that's small give
you something that's not nearly.
But if you're doing something that has some substantial size that's always helpful.
This is optional.
I think it's helpful.
Right now there are two different ways of doing a sitemap and there's also two different times you can
do them.
You can make a site map up front and do that before you've created all of your pages and you can also
do at the end after you've created your pages you can then go back and create a site map out of the
pages you already have.
Pinocchio makes this quite simple to do and they have the best tool I've seen for creating site maps.
They're called Screen flows and so you can do it really either way you want if you're following the
course when early and you don't want to make a site map right now.
Skip over this lecture go to the next lecture.
And when we get towards the end where you have a little bit more experience creating pages and you created
multiple pages then go watch us lecture and make your sitemap at the end doesn't really matter how you
do it.
My preference is to do it at the beginning.
Helps me organize my thoughts.
I can also do it as I go through the mockup I can add pages as I think of them and that is also it's
easy to do it that way because as you're designing pages you'll realize oh hey I added a button here
this button has to go somewhere.
Here's another page.
But also it's helpful the very beginning because what we can do is we can always go back to our scope
documents and look at what we possibly any of the functions we have and then think about how many pages
we would actually need to fit all of that information into it.
And then if you make a site map up front then you know exactly how many pages you need to create.
You're not sitting there thinking about if you're missing pages.
So regardless of how you do it I'm going to show you how.
So in the previous lecture we just kind of did that all the way around and created some pages that show
you how the editor view works and how you can edit things save them clone them etc..
So now we're going to do is we're going to create a screen flow.
OK.
And so here you'll notice that you don't actually have a canvas.
It's really the way you actually do this is this is your canvas and you're going to drag and drop your
pages over here.
This says welcome.
Remember we didn't label these very well.
So this could be again a problem another reason why we should label we have to do is drag and drop it
on.
I like to always start with my landing page or my welcome screen because everything else flows from
there it makes more sense because then I look at the home screen see what buttons I have see what sections
have already listed out for myself and then go accordingly.
You can resize that if you want to make it huge or smaller or whatever.
Now you'll notice that the elements on the page here are just a preview.
They don't actually drag because the elements we made are absolute not relative.
We put them specifically into some pixel space they're not going to move as we resize.
So then what I do is I just pull in all the other pages.
I kind of just throw them onto a smorgasbord and then figure it out from there.
We didn't make much of a structure but this is kind of this is where you would then kind of figure out
where everything went.
Now it's up to you how you organize it.
This is the traditional method of doing it.
What people would do is vertically is the way that you handle process flows and horizontally is the
way that you would handle kind of a hierarchy of pages.
So for instance if I notice how on the welcome page and if you want to go back to the editor and you
edit this I'd have to do is double click into it.
There we go.
You want to go back you sit back and notice how we have home about us and buy stuff.
OK well this is the home page.
Now we have an About Us page so that is actually on the same tier as our welcome page.
Why is that.
Because it's a separate page itself it's not a sub page of a sub page it's own its own navigation section.
You can access it directly it's on the same level.
Now if I had a page under about us where it said you know I had a link that said company information
and I clicked that from this page that I would create a box down here.
And the way that I create pages is I just hit pages drag and drop it.
So I would connotate this as a sub page we're putting it down here.
We'll just say
company information.
OK we'll go back and you can see that.
OK.
So I put this down below connotates that it's a process flow.
Now if for some reason I instead wanted this to be on the level what I would do is I just pulled up
here.
So if that was the case then logically what I'd have to do is go back to my other pages and then add
at that bar right there.
So I'd have to add another tab that says company information.
It's a little redundant.
Typically company information is going to be under the About Us page.
OK.
So I would say that I'd put this underneath it and then just because I'm very specific about visuals
I put them the same size.
OK.
And then let's pretend like there is a test form that came after the welcome screen.
The other one was buy stuff so we can very easily just create an extra right here.
And then I'd make this my stuff page
I'm putting the text really large so that when I'm in the preview view I know exactly what the page
is.
There we go.
OK.
So that would be my stuff page.
Now you're asking me you might ask yourself why am I doing this why am I just literally going through
sticking to words of text on it and then organizing it it's because I'm creating my sitemap and I am
putting placeholders for all the pages that I anticipate and then the way that I anticipate process
flows working.
I'd then just put them underneath.
OK so now if you wanted to show the relationship between these two besides just as visual organization
we made there are about three different ways you can do it.
What I'm going to obviously focus on is the simplest easiest way of doing this.
We're making a sitemap and a sitemap is something that should be able to be viewed on a PTF or on a
piece of paper.
So that's what's most important.
There are other ways of linking interactions between these boxes and Fiocco helps you do that.
But for our purposes we just want to do a quick easy simple way of just putting arrows to show what
goes to what.
So the way that you do that the way that I prefer doing it is to actually just select the page that
you want to link over.
And what happens is you see these little areas that light up and they're yellow the yellow areas.
What that means is these are called linkable stencils.
Now a stencil is just an element that we use on a canvas page and we talked about that in the last lecture
but all you have to do is quite literally use some precision but grab the button that you're going to
use and show where that leads to.
So all you have to do is remember the about us is the first button.
Is right.
Oh the home is the first one it's checked.
So grab the middle one and the middle one that I just drag over to the about us.
OK so now I have an arrow so anybody looks at that knows that if I click this it goes over here and
so then I can very easily connect the other ones.
Do that over here and then you go what I would do actually in this case is you know just to save us
some time because I just made a quick placeholder here over here I kind of neglected to use the actual
clone technique we learned before.
But what I can do is instead of using a placeholder like that when I can do is
so I can hide the page and then instead what I will do is I'll take this.
I'll use a context menu and I'll clone it.
There you go.
Now I put that over here.
And then I can literally jump in and change the text.
To buy stuff that's a little bit better of a way of doing it.
But then I can grab this over here and draw it over now to show process flows what you can do is see
this is just a test form we made like let's say that that for some reason clicking something on the
home page Ledgett up form what I can do is I could add a button
right here and it would just say submit information.
OK and you need to resize that remember guys this is just for our purposes understand a screen for his
work put that button there.
Now one way that you can link between pages and I don't think this is particularly helpful but you could
do it this way you can click this go to Target or target then click your page and remember we have to
label our pages Otherwise you have no idea what you're clicking and doing it that way.
The only difference is that when you then go to the screen flow you have to select the page in order
to see the connection to other pages.
So I like to make it as visually overt as possible.
I like to make it very obvious because this is something that I get I want to be able to print out on
2-D I don't have to load this in a browser to show what it does.
So that button is now editable.
I go over here and voila.
So now I know that when you're on this page you click this it goes over here and I have a very basic
screen flow.
This is the way that you would connect to your pages.
And if you're actually building out a large sitemap we would have many many many pages you know top
level you might have five or six and then you might dive down on each other one vertically and you'd
actually go through each page and you don't have a lot of times where you have multiple pages splitting.
So to give you an example we could clone this element right here
to clone it twice.
Let's say that for some reason we had a form and it had two options.
So let's say one of them was say one of them was here and you know was here.
So one of them was submit another one was learn more.
Now each one of these will actually lead you to a different page.
And so it's important to then link that in your screen flow or your sitemap.
So you actually know that there's a fork in the road.
Users can code to go do two different ways.
Now don't be lazy again with this like if you make a pop up and the pop up information is going to depend
on what they click to begin with then make sure that you show that in your sitemap.
Again if you get really detailed but you only go half way you're developers and your designers assume
that you are literal.
And then they're going to assume that you made a very bad sitemap and they're going to be missing things
and that's going to be a problem down the road.
So either be as vague as possible or be as specific as possible you obviously want to be as specific
as possible.
That's the entire point of taking the course.
So here what we would do is we pull that over here and pull this one or here and there you go.
So now I can see that there's two buttons a lead me down a different path and I can even go farther
and farther down.
OK.
So in the upcoming lectures are going to talk about how you export these things how you share these
things.
This is the way that you create a site map up front.
These are just placeholders.
But for users who are not familiar with site maps now you know what a site map is this is helpful as
a secondary document to help your developer understand the process flow to help your designer understand
how many pages they have to design and how many unique elements they've designed.
But also it's helpful for you to organize your thoughts and understand what all you have to wireframe
if you don't make a site map is a very good chance that you will forget some pages and then later you'll
be putting the application together and it's incomplete.
Someone's going to notice it and it might be embarrassing.
So all right guys I'll see.